# How to useRef

## Introduction

This is intended to be a guide on useRef. I hope to show you first,
how to use useRef and some of the basic functionality. Then show you
some examples of when useRef comes in handy when building React
applications.

When learning React, useRef was a hook that I never found to be of
much use. I noticed it the
[React docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html), but was
not really sure why or how to use it. Until one day I was doing a
technical interview (for the job I have now) where I was live coding a
form while two senior developers watched. I created a form input and
used the useState hook to capture the state of the input field, which
was an _okay_ solution. However the interviewers then asked me why I
did not use the useRef hook, and if I could refactor my code to use,
useRef üòÖ .

Luckily for me I was able to quickly
[read the React docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#useref)
and figure out how to implement useRef. But hopefully you'll read this
guide and avoid all of that stress.

## What is useRef?

useRef is a React hook that gives you direct access to DOM elements.

> **Note:** Essentially, useRef is like a ‚Äúbox‚Äù that can hold a
> mutable value in its .current property.

In this üì¶ "box"üì¶ updates to its contents will _not_ notify react
when the value changes. Meaning the changes to the refs value do _not_
cause re-renders. This is what makes useRef special.

## Sounds good, when do I useRef?

The most common use case for useRef is when wanting to find out the
dimensions of specific HTML elements.

For example if you're looking to animate a transition, you'd likely
want to know how big the width and height of the element you're
animating. Or the more common use case of wanting to get the value of
a `<input/>` element.

## Using useRef

The most basic way to use useRef would be to import it, then create a
ref and attach it to a HTML element. In the following example we've
created a ref, and attached it to a `<input>` element.

> **Note:** The useEffect is only there to `console.log` the value of
> the `inputRef` value. its only there for demonstration purposes and
> so we have something to look at in the log. Want to learn more about
> useEffect?
> [Check out this duper deep dive üèäüèΩ‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è](https://overreacted.io/a-complete-guide-to-useeffect/)
> or this [quick dive ü©≤](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html)

```jsx
import React, { useRef, useEffect } from 'react'

export default function RefExample() {
  useEffect(() => {
    console.log(inputRef)
  }, [])
  const inputRef = useRef()
  return <input ref={inputRef} />
}
```

The console should show this:

`{current: input}`

Here we have access to the input element. Meaning if we wanted to we
could add text like a username or email address into an input element
when the page loads. To do that we'd need to add the following to our
useEffect:

```jsx
import React, { useRef, useEffect } from 'react'

export default function App() {
  useEffect(() => {
    inputRef.current.value = 'email@address.com'
  }, [])

  const inputRef = useRef()
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <input ref={inputRef} />
    </div>
  )
}
```

Or we could focus the input element on page load so that users don't
have to click on it to begin entering information. To do that we could
add `inputRef.current.focus()` to the useEffect.

useRef can be used with any element. It's not limited to `<input/>`'s
in any way.

## useRef to size elements

Another time useRef comes in handy is when you're looking to compute
the size of an element. This is useful when creating css transitions,
or animations of any type really.

For this example we're going to bring in useState to keep track of the
size of the element, then use that state to be displayed on screen.

```jsx
import React, { useRef, useEffect, useState } from 'react'

export default function App() {
  const [height, setHeight] = useState(0)

  const measuredRef = useRef()
  useEffect(() => {
    if (measuredRef.current) {
      let node = measuredRef.current.getBoundingClientRect().height
      console.log(node)
      setHeight(node)
    }
  }, [measuredRef])

  return (
    <>
      <h1 ref={measuredRef}>Hello, world</h1>
      <h2>The above header is {Math.round(height)}px tall</h2>
    </>
  )
}
```

‚ö†Ô∏è There is a problem here ‚ö†Ô∏è

While this code will display the height of the `measuredRef` on the
initial render. Since useRef does not 'notify' react on change, when
the element size changes, the state does not update. Which makes this
pretty useless for animations or any of that fun stuff.

The following example make this issue much more clear. Try it out to
see for yourself.

```jsx
import React, { useRef, useEffect, useState } from 'react'

export default function App() {
  const [height, setHeight] = useState(0)

  const measuredRef = useRef()
  useEffect(() => {
    if (measuredRef.current) {
      let node = measuredRef.current.getBoundingClientRect().width
      console.log(node)
      setHeight(node)
    }
  }, [measuredRef])

  return (
    <>
      <h1
        onClick={() =>
          (measuredRef.current.innerHTML = 'MUCH LONGER TEXT HERE')
        }
        ref={measuredRef}
        style={{ display: 'inline-block' }}
      >
        Hello, world
      </h1>
      <h2>The above header is {Math.round(height)}px tall</h2>
    </>
  )
}
```

The solution react gives us is to this issue is useCallback. (Directly
from the react docs) This example shows how you can pass a useCallback
function into a ref to get the height of an element, then pass that
into state.

```jsx
import React, { useCallback, useState } from 'react'

export default function App() {
  const [height, setHeight] = useState(0)

  const measuredRef = useCallback((node) => {
    if (node !== null) {
      setHeight(node.getBoundingClientRect().height)
    }
  }, [])

  return (
    <>
      <h1 ref={measuredRef}>Hello, world</h1>
      <h2>The above header is {Math.round(height)}px tall</h2>
    </>
  )
}
```

## useRef or useState?

In the case of getting user input from `<input/>` field I used to
always reach for the useState hook. For example:

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react'

export default function App() {
  const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState()
  return (
    <>
      <input
        value={firstName}
        onChange={(e) => {
          setFirstName(e.target.value)
        }}
        placeholder="input"
      />
    </>
  )
}
```

This use is _okay_ but has a few drawbacks that I'd like to talk
about. The first and most important is that it's a little _too_
complicated in my opinion. Having to set the input value and having to
create the function to handle the onChange event. While in this
example it's not super duper complicated, it's just more complicated
then it needs to be.

The 2nd issue here is that calling setState (in this case
setFirstName()) each time a character is entered causes react to
re-render the component. While again it's not the end of the world,
and in most situations that's _fine,_ it can be done better.

```jsx
import React, { useRef } from 'react'

export default function App() {
  const inputRef = useRef()
  return (
    <>
      <form
        onSubmit={(e) => {
          e.preventDefault()
        }}
      >
        <input ref={inputRef} placeholder="input" />
      </form>
    </>
  )
}
```

In this example we have the(in my opinion) much more simple
implementation of the useRef hook. With this we've fixed the
re-rendering issue. However, this does not have a way to access the
value of the input field üßê .

Finally, we bring back our good old friend useState to help us out
there.

```jsx
import React, { useRef, useState } from 'react'
import './styles.css'

export default function App() {
  const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState()
  const inputRef = useRef()
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <form
        onSubmit={(e) => {
          e.preventDefault()
          setFirstName(inputRef.current.value)
          console.log(firstName)
        }}
      >
        <input ref={inputRef} placeholder="input" />
      </form>
    </div>
  )
}
```

In this last example we bring back useState to help us store the
firstName value in local State when the submit event happens. This
solution prevents the constant re-rendering of the useState only
solution, while also giving you handy access to the input value in
State.

Finally one last example that uses everything in the toolbox. For me
this is the best way to implement an input. However, it's also the
most complicated.

```jsx
import React, {
  useRef,
  useState,
  useCallback,
  useEffect,
} from 'react'

export default function App() {
  const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState()
  const inputRef = useRef()

  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    (e) => {
      e.preventDefault()
      setFirstName(inputRef.current.value)
    },
    [inputRef]
  )

  useEffect(() => {
    console.log(firstName)
  }, [firstName])

  return (
    <>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <input ref={inputRef} placeholder="input" />
      </form>
    </>
  )
}
```

[CodeSandbox Link](https://codesandbox.io/s/loving-voice-j163e?file=/src/App.js:0-581)

## Conclusion

This input example is interesting to me because of how many ways you
could implement an input field. Each way has its tradeoffs and there
are different lessons to be learned from using each implementation. In
all honestly there are no wrong ways of creating any application, as
long as it works and you understand the tradeoffs you're making when
making your applications.
