<heading>

# Flexbox Zombies: Review

_August 4th 2020_

</heading>

## Introduction

When I started to learn web development it seemed that flexbox was
well established and well loved by the web dev community. I started to
learn flexbox as one of the core parts of css. I found it to be like
most things in css, easy to get started with but really hard to
master.

Flexbox was my go-to tool for layouts in my projects but I found
myself checking out a
[css-tricks article](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/#flexbox-background)
every time my flexbox started to get a big janky. While this article
is great and I'm very thankful for it, it was a crutch of mine. I was
leaning on it a lot!

One day I was listening to a podcast where the creator of flexbox
zombies was a guest. [Dave Geddes](https://twitter.com/geddski) told a
super similar story to mine, he was also leaning on this css-tricks
guide to flexbox and that's why he created flexbox zombies.

### Story

The story is told via a series of text slides. You as the main
character are given a crossbow that has limited capabilities. You use
this crossbow to kill zombies. With each new level of the game, you
get more capabilities on your crossbow and learn more about how it
works.

### Gameplay

The crossbow is a mental model for how flexbox works. You can set the
'crossbow' to `display:flex` to turn it on and go from there. I found
this metaphor to be amazingly useful. It helps link the desired
outcome of your layout with a more tangible idea of using the crossbow
to kill zombies.

The game itself suggest that the player take a break of at least one
day between lessons. I took this approach and completed all 12
chapters of the game in a few weeks. I found this to be a great touch,
and apparently there is some good science backing up this approach to
learning overall (use your googles to find those).

## Conclusion

At the moment flexbox zombies is totally free to play. Therefore I
recommend that everyone who is not a flexbox master at least check the
game out. In the long run I figured I'll be saving myself lots of time
and stress of trying to read through the same old docs to find
information that i _should_ know already.

### Links

[Flexbox Zombies](https://flexboxzombies.com/p/flexbox-zombies)

[Mastery Games](https://mastery.games/)
