## 2021 In Review

### Intro

2021 was an interesting year for sure. Here are some thoughts I have
on the past year and what I'm looking forward to in 2022.

- Interests
  - [React](https://reactjs.org/)
  - [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
  - [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
  - [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [KarnellSchultz.com](http://KarnellSchultz.com) updates
  - Switch to Tailwind
  - make it easy to add new posts to this blog
  - Redesign
- Learning
  - github actions
  - [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)


### TypeTypeType

I've been interested in creating a typing test app for a while now.
[Typetypetype](https://typetypetype.vercel.app/) is that project. It's
at 1.0 now. There are plenty of things to add or improve on it. I'd
like to add profiles and a leaderboard this year. Additially i'd like
to clean up some of the style glitches that exist on the project now.

## I wrote zero new posts :-)

This year I had several moments of writing insperation. However, I
could not bring myself to write and create to the point where i'd post
something new here on my blog. I don't think this is a bad thing
really. I really think it's a product of how 2021 went. WFH fitigue.
Overall just needed to spend less time thinking about and working on
code.

That said, I want to make it more simple for me to create new posts.
At the moment it takes some work to get a new post up.

### 2022 Interests

Every now and again I take a look at my about page and see my little
list of interests. It's always been React, NextJs, and TypeScript.
Those are still my big three. However, this year I'm adding Tailwind
to the list. I've avoided trying to learn new tech without reason
in 2021. But I'm betting on Tailwind in 2022. I've already made
changes to this sites css using Tailwind and it's been good fun. Hope
to learn more this year.

GitHub Actions - We're going all in on GitHub actions at my day job.
I'd like to get more involved in learning how to use them and find
some ways to make use of them in my life.

### Updates to KarnellSchultz.com

This site is really just my playground and a place for people to find
out a bit more about me and my work. That said, I want to update the
design and some of the tech being used here.
[KarnellSchultz.com](http://KarnellSchultz.com) 2.0 coming this
year(?).

Half the point of this site is to have a place to try new things that
I would not have a chance to work with in my day job.

Additionally, I'd like to streamline how I post things to this site.
